# SiteBud CMS Basic Blog Website Template

If you're new to SiteBud CMS, please familiarize yourself with **[our documentation](https://sitebudcms.com/documentation)** first.

For a detailed guide on getting started and developing a new website with SiteBud CMS, please refer to our **[Getting Started](https://sitebudcms.com/documentation/getting-started)** tutorial and **[How To series](https://sitebudcms.com/documentation/how-to)**.

## Template Structure

The structure of the starter template is as follows:

1. `data` - Directory containing JSON content data files, managed by SiteBud CMS. Manual editing is not recommended.
2. `data-config` - Houses the SiteBud CMS data schema configuration. This directory contains the `images` subdirectory for document, block, and component images.
3. `public` - Holds public static resources, forming a part of the standard structure of a Next.js app.
4. `schema` - Contains TypeScript configuration files for documents, blocks, etc., generated by `schema/generate.ts` and outputted to `data-config`.
5. `src` - The standard structure directory of a Next.js app, consisting of:
    - `pages` - Next.js pages Routes.
    - `pages/api` - API routes.
    - `adapters` - Generated adapters utility (refer to documentation for more details). Manual editing is not recommended.
    - `components` - React components.
    - `icons` - SVG icon files used in the website.
    - `styles` - CSS files for custom classes and Tailwind CSS.
    - `PageFacade.tsx` - The entry point for rendering any page using fetched data from Pages Routes.

## Usage

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Open the `.env.local` file and set the `REPO`, `OWNER`, and `SB_SECRET` environment variables.
3. Run `yarn install` to install the project dependencies.
4. Execute `yarn dev` to start the Next.js development server.
5. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in your web browser.
6. Access the SiteBud CMS system page by appending `/admin` to the URL. This will automatically create the `work` branch as a copy of the `main` branch.
7. Define documents and blocks and add them to the document in the `schema` directory.
8. Generate the document configuration index file, along with adapter types and utility functions, by running `yarn generate`.
9. Develop React components using the generated adapter types and functions.
10. Push all changes to the `work` branch of the repository and refresh the SiteBud CMS page.
11. Use SiteBud CMS to add content to your website, and preview changes.
12. If changes to the document configuration are required, modify the `schema` directory, regenerate the JSON index file and adapters, push these changes to the `work` branch, and reload the CMS page.

For any questions, please post in the **[Discussion](https://github.com/sitebud/sitebud/discussions)** forum of SiteBud CMS.

#### MIT License